# SnomedCT

SNOMED CT is a comprehensive clinical terminology that is used in health information and to support the effective clinical recording of data with the aim of improving patient care. There are many web browsers supporting SNOMED CT searching; but there are very few and poor designed existing mobile applications for doctors to search with SNOMED CT, which is really important since SNOMED CT is used by doctors worldwide and these users mostly have smartphones. In this paper, I will explain how did I develop the Android Application for SNOMED CT searching in detail. Basically, my application have three main function, which are concept search, searching history and listing of favorite concepts


SNOMED CT is owned, maintained, and distributed by the International Health Terminology Standards Development Organization (IHTSDO). As a terminology searching application, the database is the core of this App, and SNOMED CT United States Edition is the official source to use the database. The size of the database is approximately 3.0 GB, so it is very costly and time costuming to build our own service to use the data for our App. Gladly, the NLM is the U.S. Member of the IHTSDO, and NLM provides free license to use their database online by using UMLS REST API or UMLS SOAP API. For our application, we will use UMLS REST API. There are three steps needed to call the API, first is to apply the license to get the API token which can be used unlimited times forever; second is to use the token to get a TGT, the TGT can  only be use unlimited for 8 hours; lastly, use the TGT to get a single use Service Ticket. So in order to use the UMLS database, we need a new service ticket every time when you call the API.
The search function in our application is fully depends on the UMLS REST API, which provide partial string search and also can retrieve the target which has the same synonyms term.

SNOMED CT consists of three core components which are Concepts, Descriptions and Relationships, and both descriptions and relationships belong to one concept. The search function will retrieve all the concepts that contains the search keywords. The App will store all the searched keywords for seven days. For each concept that the user choose, it will shows all the synonyms ,the full specified name, relationships and hierarchy map. The user can save the concept as favorite or send the concept information to anyone by email.
